>> Thompson: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SATURDAY, JULY 9, POLICE IN
DALLAS PROBE THE MOTIVES AND
METHODS OF A SNIPER WHO SHOCKED
THE CITY AND A NATION.
THE MAYOR OF DALLAS SHARES WITH
US HIS PERSPECTIVE ON THIS
WEEK'S TRAGEDY.
AND, PRESIDENT OBAMA MEETS WITH
AMERICA'S ALLIES IN EUROPE OVER
THE FUTURE OF NATO.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
MEGAN THOMPSON.
>> Thompson: GOOD EVENING, AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AUTHORITIES IN DALLAS, TEXAS,
SAY THE MAN WHO SHOT A DOZEN OF
THE CITY'S POLICE OFFICERS,
KILLING FIVE, ACTED ALONE IN
CARRYING OUT HIS ATTACK, AND
THAT HE USED THE SAME STYLE OF
ASSAULT RIFLE USED IN RECENT
MASS SHOOTINGS IN AN ORLANDO,
FLORIDA, NIGHT CLUB; A NEWTOWN,
CONNECTICUT, ELEMENTARY SCHOOL;
AND AN AURORA, COLORADO, MOVIE
THEATER.
JOINING US NOW FROM DALLAS WITH
THE LATEST ON THE INVESTIGATION
IS OUR OWN HARI SREENIVASAN.
HARI?
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
MEGAN.
WHILE OFFICIALS SAY THE SNIPER,
WHO WAS KILLED IN A STANDOFF
EARLY YESTERDAY, WAS A LONE
GUNMAN, THEY HAVE NOT RULED OUT
THE POSSIBILITY OF
CO-CONSPIRATORS OR ACCOMPLICES.
ABOUT A MILE FROM WHERE THE
SHOOTINGS OCCURRED, MOURNERS ARE
LEAVING FLOWERS AT A MAKESHIFT
MEMORIAL OUTSIDE DALLAS POLICE
HEADQUARTERS.
TODAY, THE F.B.I. AND STATE AND
LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT CONTINUED
TO PROBE THE AREA WHERE 25-YEAR-
OLD MICAH XAVIER JOHNSON KILLED
FIVE POLICE OFFICERS AND WOUNDED
SEVEN OTHERS.
TEXAS GOVERNOR GREG ABBOTT SAYS
JOHNSON ACTED ALONE, BUT THE
INVESTIGATION IS FAR FROM OVER.
>> I THINK GOOD LAW ENFORCEMENT
MEANS THAT WE CONTINUE DOWN
EVERY RABBIT TRAIL UNTIL THEY
ARE EXHAUSTED, ENSURING THAT WE
ELIMINATE ANY OTHER POSSIBLE
SUSPECTS OR CO-CONSPIRATORS WHO
MAY HAVE AIDED THIS GUNMAN IN
ANY WAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AUTHORITIES
SAY JOHNSON-- SEEN HERE FIRING
THURSDAY NIGHT IN DOWNTOWN
DALLAS-- WAS ARMED WITH A
MILITARY-STYLE AR-15 RIFLE AND
WORE A BULLETPROOF VEST DURING
HIS ATTACK.
FOLLOWING YESTERDAY'S SEARCH OF
HIS RESIDENCE IN THE NEARBY TOWN
OF MESQUITE, DALLAS POLICE SAY
JOHNSON HAD STOCKPILED MORE
RIFLES AND AMMUNITION AND BOMB-
MAKING MATERIALS.
POLICE SAY THEY FOUND MANIFESTOS
ABOUT COMBAT TACTICS WRITTEN BY
JOHNSON, WHO SERVED IN THE ARMY
RESERVES FROM 2009 TO 2015 AND
WAS DEPLOYED TO AFGHANISTAN FOR
NINE MONTHS.
OFFICIALS ALSO SAY JOHNSON
FOLLOWED BLACK MILITANT GROUPS
ON SOCIAL MEDIA, "LIKING"
ORGANIZATIONS ON FACEBOOK THAT
HAVE ADVOCATED VIOLENCE TOWARD
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND WHITE
PEOPLE.
DALLAS POLICE CHIEF DAVID BROWN
HAS SAID JOHNSON'S COMMENTS
DURING THE STANDOFF INDICATED HE
WAS ANGERED BY THIS WEEK'S FATAL
POLICE SHOOTINGS OF BLACK MEN IN
LOUISIANA AND MINNESOTA, THE
SUBJECT OF THE PROTEST THURSDAY
NIGHT IN DALLAS WHERE JOHNSON
OPENED FIRE.
PROTESTERS ACROSS THE COUNTRY
CONTINUE TO DENOUNCE THOSE
KILLINGS-- OF ALTON STERLING IN
BATON ROUGE AND PHILANDO CASTILE
IN ST. PAUL.
IN THE WEEKLY WHITE HOUSE
ADDRESS TODAY, VICE PRESIDENT
JOE BIDEN CALLED FOR AMERICANS
TO STAND UP FOR THE POLICE AND
SPEAK OUT AGAINST DISPARITIES IN
THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
>> THOSE KILLED AND WOUNDED,
WERE PROTECTING THE SAFETY OF
THOSE WHO WERE PEACEFULLY
PROTESTING AGAINST RACIAL
INJUSTICES IN THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
THOSE WHO WERE MARCHING, WERE
MARCHING AGAINST THE KIND OF
SHOCKING IMAGES WE SAW IN ST.
PAUL AND BATON ROUGE, AND HAVE
SEEN SO OFTEN ELSEWHERE, OF TOO
MANY BLACK LIVES LOST.
>> Sreenivasan: BECAUSE THE
AUTHORITIES BELIEVE THE GUNMAN
WHO CARRIED OUT THE POLICE
SHOOTINGS ACTED ALONE, DALLAS
MAYOR MIKE RAWLINGS SAYS THE
CITY IS SAFE AND CAN START
HEALING.
RAWLINGS IS A TEXAS NATIVE WHO
USED TO BE THE C.E.O. OF
PIZZA HUT.
HE IS NOW SERVING HIS SECOND
TERM AS MAYOR AFTER BEING
ELECTED LAST YEAR.
WE MET TO TALK ABOUT THIS WEEK'S
TRAGIC EVENTS.
YOU WAKE UP AND YOU SEE THIS
ON THE FRONT OF YOUR PAPER, IT'S
GOT TO BE A MAYOR'S NIGHTMARE.
>> IT IS, YOU KNOW, YOU TALK
ABOUT BEING MAYOR, THERE ARE A
LOT OF JOYS, BUT YOU KNOW AT ANY
TIME AN ORLANDO COULD HAPPEN OR,
YOU KNOW, SOMETHING LIKE THIS,
UM, AND ALL YOU COULD DO IS BE
PREPARED TO DEAL WITH IT.
YOU KNOW, IT'S-- IT'S TOUGH TO
PREDICT IT AND KEEP EVERYBODY
FROM HARM'S WAY AND YOU KNOW
THAT YOU'RE NOT POWERFUL ENOUGH
TO DO THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DO YOU HELP
A CITY MOVE FORWARD FROM
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, I THINK FIRST OF ALL
YOU HAVE TO BE HONEST.
I THINK, IF YOU PUT A MIRROR TO
YOURSELF, YOU JUST SAY, "WHERE
ARE WE?"
AND YOU KNOW, THIS CITY MOVED
TREMENDOUSLY AFTER THE KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION IN '63, I MEAN,
ONE OF THE GREAT CITIES IN THE
WORLD WAS CREATED THROUGH THAT,
AND SO YOU USE THESE
OPPORTUNITIES TO BE HONEST WITH
YOURSELF, AND I THINK WE REALIZE
THAT YOU CAN HOLD TWO THOUGHTS
IN YOUR MIND, YOU CAN HOLD
POLICE OFFICERS ACCOUNTABLE FOR
A FEW SITUATIONS, AND TOUGH
SITUATIONS, BUT AT THE SAME TIME
REALIZE IT'S OUR POLICE OFFICERS
THAT KEEP US SAFE.
AND THEY'RE THE ONES THAT ARE
PUTTING THEIR LIVES ON THE LINE
AND SUPPORT THEM, AND I THINK A
GOOD CITY, A GOOD COMMUNITY
COULD UNDERSTAND HOW TO PUT
THOSE TWO THOUGHTS TOGETHER.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DO YOU DO
IN THE INTERIM?
HOW DO YOU GET TO THAT POINT
WHERE A YOUNG PERSON WHO WAS
PROTESTING YESTERDAY SEES THE
VALUE OF THE PERSON WHO WAS
PROTECTING THEM?
>> YEAH, I THINK THEY WILL.
THROUGH THIS.
SADLY PEOPLE DIED, AND THERE ARE
GOING TO BE THOSE INDIVIDUALS
THAT WERE IN THE PROTEST SAYING,
"WE LOVE OUR POLICE."
THEY WOULDN'T HAVE SAID THAT IF
THOSE FOLKS HAD NOT DIED.
SO I THINK THAT'S A POSITIVE
START, BUT THIS IS A BIGGER
ISSUE THAN JUST A CITY.
THIS IS A COUNTRY ISSUE.
THIS IS OBVIOUSLY A MEDIA ISSUE.
THIS IS A POLITICAL LEADERSHIP
ISSUE.
WE HAVE GOT TO PUT PEOPLE ON THE
SAME STAGE THAT HAVE OPPOSING
VIEWS, AND BE ABLE TO DISAGREE
AGREEABLY AND NOT EXACERBATE THE
EXTREMISM THAT MANY OF US HAVE
NATURALLY.
WE WANT TO BE PASSIONATE ABOUT
THINGS.
WE WANT TO TELL THE WORLD THAT
WE'RE RIGHT AND EVERYBODY ELSE
IS WRONG.
AND IT'S JUST LIKE-- JUST CHILL
OUT A LITTLE BIT, AND LET'S
LISTEN TO ONE ANOTHER.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CHILLING OUT
IS ACTUALLY ONE OF THE-- THE
DE-ESCALATION IS ACTUALLY KEY TO
WHAT YOUR POLICE OFFICERS HAVE
BEEN TRAINED TO DO.
>> VERY MUCH SO.
YOU KNOW, VERY MUCH SO, AND
WE'RE SO PROUD-- I'VE SEEN SOME
SITUATIONS AROUND THE COUNTRY,
AND I'VE TALKED TO OUR OFFICERS
AND THEY SAID "WE WOULD HAVE
NEVER DONE IT THAT WAY, BECAUSE
WE KNOW HOW TO DE-ESCALATE
SITUATIONS."
AND THAT'S WHY I'M SO PROUD AND
SO HEARTBROKEN AT THE SAME TIME,
BECAUSE WE HAVE THOSE SKILL SETS
BUT YET, THEY'RE DEAD TODAY.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU KNOW, YOU
MENTIONED THAT AS TRAGIC AS IT
WAS, THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
WAS A TURNING POINT FOR THIS
CITY.
>> IT WAS.
>> Sreenivasan: FIVE YEARS FROM
NOW, TEN YEARS FROM NOW, IS THIS
GOING TO BE ONE OF THOSE TURNING
POINTS, AND WHAT DO YOU HOPE THE
CITY TURNS INTO?
>> WELL, I HAVE ALWAYS WANTED
THE CITY TO BE THE CITY OF THE
21st CENTURY.
WE'RE A YOUNG CITY.
160 YEARS OLD.
WE'VE GOT GOOD INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE'RE THE PLACE WHERE MORE SMALL
BUSINESSES COME.
WE HAVE JOBS BEING CREATED.
BUT HOPEFULLY THIS WILL MAKE US
MORE, UM, PASSIONATE ABOUT
DEALING WITH THE INCOME
DISPARITY THAT WE HAVE AS A
CITY.
UM, BECAUSE I THINK IT'S IN THAT
INCOME DISPARITY THAT THESE
THINGS START TO KIND OF TAKE
SEED AND POP UP, AND HOPEFULLY
AS WE GO FORWARD, WE'LL DEAL
WITH OUR EDUCATION ISSUES
BETTER.
WE'LL DEAL WITH A JOB CREATION
FOR THOSE INDIVIDUALS BETTER,
AS OPPOSED TO SAYING IT'S
SOMEONE ELSE'S PROBLEM.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DOES THIS
TRAGEDY PUT A FINE POINT ON IT?
HOW DOES IT GET PEOPLE TO THINK
ABOUT THOSE DEEP UNDERLYING
ISSUES THAT ARE SO HUGE?
>> WELL, WHAT I KNOW IS THAT
EVERYBODY WANTS TO BE SAFE.
AND WHEN A POLICE OFFICER IS
KILLED BY A RANDOM GUNMAN,
PEOPLE REALIZE, "OH, I'M THIS
CLOSE-- I'M THIS CLOSE... IF IT
WASN'T FOR THEM, I'D BE THAT
INDIVIDUAL."
AND I THINK THERE'S A SOBRIETY
THAT TAKES PLACE AND WE NEED TO
RALLY AROUND THAT FOUNDATION WE
HAVE OF PUBLIC SAFETY, UM, AND
THEN SAY, ASK THE QUESTION "WHY
IS THIS HAPPENING"?
>> Thompson: A REPORT RELEASED
YESTERDAY BY "THE CENTER FOR
POLICING EQUITY" ADDRESSES THE
GROWING CONCERNS ABOUT RACIAL
BIAS IN POLICING.
WHILE MOST INTERACTIONS WITH
POLICE IN THE U.S. END
PEACEFULLY, THE SURVEY OF POLICE
DEPARTMENTS IN ELEVEN SMALL AND
MEDIUM-SIZED CITIES AND ONE
COUNTY FINDS IN THOSE
JURISDICTIONS, AFRICAN-AMERICANS
HAVE BEEN MORE LIKELY THAN WHITE
AMERICANS TO BE SUBJECTED TO THE
USE OF FORCE BY POLICE.
LOOKING AT 19,000 INCIDENTS
BETWEEN 2010 AND 2015,
RESEARCHERS FOUND BLACKS ARE 3.5
TIMES MORE LIKELY THAN WHITES TO
EXPERIENCE USE OF FORCE.
JOINING ME NOW FROM WASHINGTON,
D.C., IS ONE OF THE REPORT'S
AUTHORS, JACK GLASER.
HE IS A PROFESSOR OF PUBLIC
POLICY AT THE UNIVERSITY OF
CALIFORNIA AT BERKELEY.
FIRST OF ALL, PROFESSOR, CAN YOU
JUST TELL ME, WHEN WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT USE OF FORCE, WHAT ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT EXACTLY?
>> THAT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT
QUESTION, BECAUSE DIFFERENT
DEPARTMENTS DEFINE IT SOMEWHAT
DIFFERENTLY.
THAT WAS ONE OF THE CHALLENGES
OF THIS RESEARCH PROJECT, WAS TO
HARMONIZE DATA ACROSS DIFFERENT
DEPARTMENTS SO WE CAN
MEANINGFULLY COMPARE THEM, IN
TERMS OF WHAT THEY'RE
IDENTIFYING AS USE OF FORCE, BUT
GENERALLY, WHAT WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT IS WHEN POLICE USE
PHYSICAL FORCE TO DETAIN OR MOVE
OR BRING INTO COMPLIANCE A
CIVILIAN THEY'RE DEALING WITH,
AND THAT COULD RANGE FROM
THEIR MERE PRESENCE AS A THREAT
OF FORCE TO GENTLE HANDS-ON TO,
ALL THE WAY UP TO TASERING AND
USE OF LETHAL FORCE LIKE
FIREARMS.
>> Thompson: THE REPORT ALSO
REFUTES THE NOTION THIS HAPPENS
MORE OFTEN AMONG AFRICAN-
AMERICANS BECAUSE THEY HAVE MORE
CONTACT WITH POLICE, RIGHT?
CAN YOU WALK US THROUGH THAT?
>> YEAH, THAT IS ONE OF THE
GENERAL ARGUMENTS PUT UP TO TRY
TO EXPLAIN AWAY THE RACIAL
DISPARITIES AND USE OF FORCE AND
WHAT WE DID WAS TO TEST WHETHER
THE DISPARITIES THAT WE SEE IN
THE POPULATION HOLD UP EVEN WHEN
YOU CONSIDER THE RATES AT WHICH
AFRICAN-AMERICANS AND OTHER
MINORITY GROUPS RELATIVE TO
WHITES HAVE CONTACT WITH THE
POLICE.
AND SO, IT IS ABOVE AND BEYOND
THEIR HIGHER RATE-- AND THEY DO
HAVE HIGHER RATES OF CONTACT
WITH THE POLICE FOR LOTS OF
REASONS-- BUT ABOVE AND BEYOND
THEIR RATES OF CONTACT WITH THE
POLICE, AND ABOVE AND BEYOND
THEIR RATES OF OFFENDING, THEY
ARE STILL SUBJECT TO A
DISPROPORTIONATE LEVEL OF USE OF
FORCE BY THE POLICE.
>> Megan: DO WE KNOW ANYTHING
NOW ABOUT WHAT HELPS EXPLAIN
THESE RACIAL DISPARITIES?
>> ONE THING IS PROBABLY
TRAINING.
AND THERE ARE DEPARTMENTS AROUND
THE COUNTRY, SOME OF WHICH MAY
BE INCLUDED IN THIS DATA SET,
THAT HAVE BEEN ENGAGING IN VERY
RIGOROUS TRAINING ON USE OF
FORCE, WITH SEVERAL GOALS THAT
SEEM TO BE EFFECTIVE IN REDUCING
RATES OF USE OF FORCE, ONE OF
WHICH IS JUST GENERALLY
DE-ESCALATION AND FINDING MORE
TIME AND DISTANCE BETWEEN THE
OFFICER AND THE CIVILIAN SUBJECT
BUT ANOTHER IS PUTTING OFFICERS
THROUGH MORE REALISTIC
CONDITIONS IN WHICH THEY MIGHT
ENCOUNTER AND HAVE TO USE LETHAL
FORCE, SO THAT WHEN THEY DO
ENCOUNTER THAT, THEY'RE A LITTLE
MORE ACCUSTOMED AND MAYBE A
LITTLE LESS TERRIFIED IN THE
SITUATION AND ABLE TO USE SOME
OF THEIR HIGHER-ORDER FUNCTIONS
INSTEAD OF JUST A PURE
FIGHT-OR-FLIGHT RESPONSE WHICH I
THINK IS RESPONSIBLE FOR A LOT
OF THE RACIAL DISPARITIES WE'RE
SEEING IN LETHAL USE OF FORCE IN
A LOT OF CASES OF LETHAL FORCE
WITH UNARMED SUBJECTS.
>> Megan: HOW HAVE POLICE
DEPARTMENTS RECEIVED YOUR
FINDINGS SO FAR?
I UNDERSTAND YOU'VE BEEN MEETING
AND DISCUSSING YOUR FINDINGS
WITH SOME POLICE DEPARTMENTS.
>> IN MY EXPERIENCE, THEY'VE
BEEN WELL RECEIVED.
THEY'RE GLAD TO HAVE THE ACTUAL
DATA AND TO BE ABLE TO DO THIS
COMPARISON ACROSS DEPARTMENTS SO
THAT THEY HAVE A SENSE OF WHAT
THEY MIGHT BE DOING RIGHT OR
WRONG RELATIVE TO OTHER
DEPARTMENTS, AND WE CAN START
SHARING INFORMATION ABOUT WHAT
DEPARTMENTS ARE DOING SO THEY
CAN START IMPROVING THEIR
PRACTICES.
>> Megan: JACK GLASER, PROFESSOR
OF PUBLIC POLICY AT UC BERKELEY,
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Thompson: HEAR FROM THOSE WHO
LIVE IN THE SAME NEIGHBORHOOD AS
SHOOTING SUSPECT MICAH JOHNSON.
LISTEN TO THE REPORT FROM PUBLIC
TELEVISION AND RADIO STATION
KERA IN DALLAS BY VISITING US
ONLINE AT www.pbs.org/newshour.
MANY AFRICAN-AMERICAN PARENTS
HAVE WHAT IS CALLED "THE TALK"
WITH THEIR CHILDREN-- WHAT TO DO
AND WHAT NOT TO DO IF THEY ARE
PULLED OVER OR CONFRONTED BY A
POLICE OFFICER.
A FORTHCOMING DOCUMENTARY ON PBS
CALLED "THE TALK" EXPLORES THIS
IN DEPTH.
IN THIS EXCERPT, CHRISTI
GRIFFIN EXPLAINS "THE ETHICS
PROJECT," WHICH SHE LAUNCHED IN
PART TO CURB THE PROBLEM OF
POLICE SHOOTINGS OF UNARMED
BLACK MEN.
>> IT'S SO MUCH A PART OF OUR
NATURE, IT'S SO INGRAINED THAT
WE CAN'T LET OUR SONS OUT OF OUR
FRONT DOORS WITHOUT GIVING THEM
INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO COME BACK
ALIVE.
I AM CHRISTI GRIFFIN, I AM A
RETIRED ATTORNEY WHO FOUNDED THE
ETHICS PROJECT IN 2007, TO
ADDRESS THE INJUSTICES OF OUR
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM.
WHEN I MOVED WITH MY SON INTO AN
ALL-WHITE COMMUNITY, I DID NOT
EXPECT HIM TO EVER BE IN
TROUBLE.
BUT THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE.
THEY DON'T HAVE TO DO ANYTHING,
WHICH IS THE PROBLEM.
AND SO, WHEN THE POLICE OFFICER
PULLED HIM OVER, I JUST HAPPENED
TO BE WITH HIM.
I HEARD SOMETHING IN MY SON'S
VOICE I DID NOT REALIZE EXISTED.
HE KNEW HE HAD NOT DONE ANYTHING
WRONG.
I HEARD AN ANGER.
HE WASN'T DISRESPECTFUL, BUT MY
SON KEPT ASKING HIM "WHAT DID
I DO?"
AND I HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO DOUBT
IN MY MIND THAT HAD I NOT BEEN
THERE, THAT SITUATION WOULD HAVE
ESCALATED TO WHERE MY SON WAS
CONSTANTLY HARASSED TO THE POINT
THAT SOMETHING WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED.
AND THE POLICEMAN NEVER EVEN
ATTEMPTED TO GIVE HIM AN EXCUSE
FOR PULLING HIM OVER.
SO TAKE YOUR DRIVER'S LICENSE
OUT RIGHT NOW!
I DON'T WANT YOU REACHING INTO
YOUR BACK POCKET.
I DON'T FOR ANY REASON TO HAVE
TO GET A PHONE CALL THAT TELLS
ME MY SON IS HAS BEEN KILLED BY
A POLICE OFFICER BECAUSE HE
FEARED FOR HIS LIFE, BECAUSE MY
SON REACHED FOR HIS WALLET.
>> Thompson: WHILE GRIFFIN'S SON
IS ALIVE, IN THIS SECOND EXCERPT
FROM "THE TALK," WE HEAR FROM
THE FATHER AND STEPMOTHER OF
ABDUL KAMAL, A 30-YEAR-OLD BLACK
MAN WHO DIED AFTER A
CONFRONTATION WITH POLICE IN NEW
JERSEY THREE YEARS AGO.
>> HE HAD ALREADY STARTED
DRINKING ALCOHOL.
HE GETS TO HIS WIFE'S HOUSE.
SHE WOULDN'T OPEN THE DOOR.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME, SHE COULD
SEE HIM.
SHE CALLS THE POLICE.
THE COPS SHOW UP WITH THEIR GUNS
DRAWN.
THEY DIDN'T EVEN INVESTIGATE
WHAT WAS GOING ON.
AND I'M TALKING LESS THAN FIVE
MINUTES, ABDUL WAS DEAD.
>> WE HAD THE WRONG TALK.
>> OUR TALK WAS YOU DON'T FEAR
THEM.
THAT'S WHAT OUR TALK WAS.
>> AS A PARENT, I THOUGHT I WAS
DOING THE RIGHT THING.
YOU KNOW, I GAVE HIM A FALSE
CONCEPT, ACTUALLY.
YOU ARE JUST AS GOOD AS ANY
OTHER-- NO, YOU'RE NOT!
NO, YOU'RE NOT, SON!
YOU CAN'T DO THAT.
I CAME FROM THE GHETTO, THE
PROJECTS.
MY SON NEVER LIVED IN THE
WE THOUGHT, BECAUSE WE MADE A
CERTAIN AMOUNT OF MONEY, THAT WE
COULD PROTECT OUR CHILDREN.
>> AND YET, AND STILL, SOCIETY
AND IT'S UGLINESS STILL TAPPED
ON OUR DOOR.
SO WHAT I'M TELLING YOU, WAKE
UP.
THIS AFFECTS US ALL.
WE ALL LOSE.
CHILDREN, THEY ARE MURDERED FOR
NO OTHER REASON THAN, HE WAS TOO
TALL, HE WAS TOO BIG.
I MEAN, THE LIST GOES ON AND ON.
A WHITE BOY COULD RUN IN A MOVIE
THEATER, OPEN FIRE AND KILL 14
PEOPLE AND STAND TRIAL.
OUR KIDS CAN WALK DOWN THE
STREET AND GET GUNNED DOWN AND
THE PEOPLE WHO KILL THEM,
NOTHING HAPPENS.
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING.
WE JUST FOUND OUT THAT ONE OF
THE OFFICERS THAT KILLED ABDUL
GOT PROMOTED.
HOW DOES THAT HAPPEN?
IT IS NOT A DAY THAT GOES BY
THAT WE DON'T THINK ABOUT ABDUL.
AND THEN, WHAT CAN WE DO TO SAVE
ANOTHER PARENT, ANOTHER FAMILY
FROM THIS LOSS?
>> Thompson: IN LIGHT OF THE
SNIPER SHOOTING THAT KILLED FIVE
DALLAS POLICE OFFICERS,
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS CUTTING SHORT
HIS EUROPEAN TRIP BY ONE DAY TO
RETURN TO THE U.S. TOMORROW, AND
VISIT DALLAS ON TUESDAY.
AT TODAY'S NATO SUMMIT IN
WARSAW-- HIS LAST AS PRESIDENT--
OBAMA ADDRESSED THE TRAGEDY AND
SAID THE DALLAS KILLER WAS
"DEMENTED" AND NOT
REPRESENTATIVE OF ALL AMERICANS.
>> WE CANNOT LET THE ACTIONS OF
A FEW DEFINE ALL OF US.
THE DEMENTED INDIVIDUAL WHO
CARRIED OUT THOSE ATTACKS IN
DALLAS, HE'S NO MORE
REPRESENTATIVE OF AFRICAN-
AMERICANS THAN THE SHOOTER IN
CHARLESTON WAS REPRESENTATIVE OF
WHITE AMERICANS, OR THE SHOOTERS
IN ORLANDO OR SAN BERNARDINO
WERE REPRESENTATIVE OF
MUSLIM-AMERICANS.
>> Thompson: AT THE SUMMIT, THE
U.S. AND THE 27 OTHER NATO
COUNTRIES COMMITTED TO STATION
MILITARY FORCES IN AFGHANISTAN
THROUGH 2020.
THE U.S. STILL HAS MORE THAN
8,000 TROOPS THERE.
NATO ALSO AGREED TO BOOST
MILITARY AID TO COUNTRIES IN
AFRICA AND THE MIDDLE EAST
FIGHTING ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS, AND
TO DEPLOY SURVEILLANCE AIRCRAFT
TO SUPPORT FORCES FIGHTING ISIS
IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.
YESTERDAY, NATO APPROVED THE
DEPLOYMENT OF MULTINATIONAL
BATTALIONS TO POLAND, LITHUANIA,
LATVIA, AND ESTONIA TO DETER
RUSSIA, IN LIGHT OF RUSSIA'S
ACTIONS IN UKRAINE.
JOINING ME NOW BY SKYPE, FROM
WARSAW, IS "WASHINGTON POST"
BRUSSELS BUREAU CHIEF MICHAEL
BIRNBAUM.
MICHAEL, RUSSIA HAS BEEN A HUGE
TOPIC AT THIS SUMMIT, AND TODAY,
FORMER SOVIET PRESIDENT MIKHAIL
GORBACHEV ACCUSED NATO LEADERS
OF ESCALATING TENSIONS WITH
RUSSIA.
CAN YOU TELL US, WHAT'S HE
TALKING ABOUT, WHAT'S THE
CONTEXT?
>> WELL, THE DECISIONS TAKEN
HERE IN WARSAW OVER THESE PAST
TWO DAYS ARE REALLY A HUGE
CHANGE FOR NATO'S RELATIONSHIP,
BOTH WITH ITS OWN EASTERN-MOST
MEMBERS-- THE BALTIC STATES AND
POLAND, AS YOU MENTIONED, AND
ALSO WITH RUSSIA, BECAUSE
THEY'RE PLANNING TO SEND A TOTAL
OF ABOUT 4,000 TROOPS TO THESE
COUNTRIES, THAT WOULD AIM TO
DETER ANY SORT OF RUSSIAN
AGGRESSION.
NOW, THAT'S AFTER RUSSIA, IN
2014, ANNEXED UKRAINE'S CRIMEAN
PENINSULA AND HELPED FOMENT THE
CONFLICT IN EASTERN UKRAINE, BUT
RUSSIA HAS SAID NATO'S DECISIONS
RIGHT NOW ARE A REAL SECURITY
THREAT.
THEY HAVE SAID THAT THEY ARE
VERY UNHAPPY ABOUT IT.
THEY'RE PLANNING TO BOLSTER
THEIR OWN MILITARY DEPLOYMENTS
TO THEIR WEST.
>> Megan: HOW ABOUT BRITAIN'S
DECISION TO EXIT THE E.U.?
HOW HAS THAT AFFECTED THE TALKS?
>> BRITAIN ISN'T PULLING OUT OF
NATO, AND WHAT LEADERS ARE
SAYING PUBLICLY IS THAT BRITAIN
IS MORE COMMITTED THAN EVER, BUT
IN PRIVATE, A LOT OF PEOPLE I'VE
BEEN TALKING TO HERE SAY THEY'RE
WORRIED THAT THE BRITISH
DECISION TO SPLIT FROM THE
EUROPEAN UNION IS A BAD SIGN,
MAKING IT HARDER TO SPEND MONEY
ON SECURITY AND DEFENSE, AND
ALSO DISTRACT THE BRITISH
POLICYMAKERS OVER THE NEXT
COUPLE OF YEARS.
>> Megan: NATO ALSO ANNOUNCED A
NEW EFFORT IN THE MEDITERRANEAN,
TO CURB THE FLOW OF MIGRANTS.
CAN YOU JUST TALK A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT WHAT THE PLAN IS THERE?
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
NATO IS PLANNING TO SEND SOME
NAVAL VESSELS, NATO MEMBERS ARE
GOING TO SEND THEM THERE TO THE
MEDITERRANEAN, WHERE IT'S ALSO
CONSIDERED A BIT OF A SECURITY
THREAT FOR EUROPE, BECAUSE THEY
HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO SCREEN THE
PEOPLE COMING IN.
AND SO, NATO IS GOING TO TRY TO
DEFEND EUROPE BUT ALSO TO MAKE
SURE THAT THOSE WHO ARE COMING
OVER, OFTEN WITH SMUGGLERS,
AREN'T SINKING AND DYING AND
DROWNING, AS WE'VE SEEN HAPPEN
AGAIN AND AGAIN.
>> Thompson: THE SUMMIT IS BEING
HELD IN POLAND.
AND I UNDERSTAND, IT'S CALLING
ATTENTION TO SOME DOMESTIC
POLICY ISSUES IN POLAND.
CAN YOU TELL US WHAT IS
HAPPENING THERE?
>> POLAND HAS A NEW GOVERNMENT
SINCE LAST OCTOBER.
SINCE THEY'VE COME IN, THEY'VE
TAKEN A NUMBER OF STEPS THAT
CRITICS SAY CHALLENGE THE RULE
OF LAW HERE, CHANGES TO THE
CONSTITUTIONAL COURT, THE
COUNTRY'S TOP COURT, CHANGES TO
PRESS INSTITUTIONS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA, YESTERDAY,
MEETING WITH THE POLISH
PRESIDENT, SAID THAT THE UNITED
STATES WAS CONCERNED ABOUT WHAT
IS HAPPENING IN POLAND AND THAT
HAS BEEN SOMETHING THAT'S BEEN
ON THE MIND OF A NUMBER OF
PEOPLE HERE.
>> Thompson: ALL RIGHT, A LOT OF
ISSUES TO PAY ATTENTION TO.
MICHAEL BIRNBAUM, OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST", THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANKS SO MUCH FOR HAVING ME.
>> Thompson: BY ONE MEASURE, THE
ABILITY OF ISIS TO SPREAD ITS
EXTREMIST IDEOLOGY ONLINE HAS
DIMINISHED.
CITING U.S. OFFICIALS, THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTS TWITTER
TRAFFIC BY ISIS OPERATIVES HAS
DROPPED 45% OVER THE PAST TWO
YEARS.
THE A.P. SAYS THIS IS PARTLY DUE
TO A CAMPAIGN BY THE U.S. TO
COMBAT VIOLENT EXTREMISM ONLINE,
INCLUDING COUNTER-MESSAGES IN
ARABIC ABOUT ISIS ATROCITIES AND
HOW POORLY THE TERRORIST GROUP
TREATS WOMEN AND CHILDREN.
DATA OBTAINED BY THE A.P. SHOWS
"ANTI-ISIS" CONTENT ONLINE
OUTWEIGHS "PRO-ISIS" CONTENT BY
SIX TO ONE, AND ISIS TWITTER
ACCOUNTS TYPICALLY HAVE ONLY
1/5 OF THE FOLLOWERS THEY HAD
TWO YEARS AGO.
THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY'S PLATFORM
COMMITTEE HANDED A VICTORY TO
SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS TODAY,
APPROVING A PLANK THAT CALLS FOR
MORE THAN DOUBLING THE FEDERAL
MINIMUM WAGE OVER TIME FROM
$7.25 TO $15 AN HOUR.
MEETING IN ORLANDO, THE PLATFORM
COMMITTEE ALSO REJECTED A
SANDERS' PROPOSAL-- EXPLICITLY
OPPOSING THE PROPOSED TRANS-
PACIFIC TRADE DEAL-- EVEN THOUGH
PRESUMPTIVE NOMINEE HILLARY
CLINTON ALSO OPPOSES THE PACT.
SANDERS IS EXPECTED TO FORMALLY
ENDORSE CLINTON NEXT WEEK.
DELEGATES WILL FINALIZE THE
PLATFORM AT THIS MONTH'S
DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION IN
PHILADELPHIA.
FEDERAL HEALTH OFFICIALS SAY A
PERSON IN UTAH WHO DIED LAST
MONTH IS THE FIRST CONFIRMED
ZIKA-RELATED DEATH IN THE
CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES.
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION WON'T SAY WHETHER
THE SALT LAKE CITY RESIDENT WAS
A MAN OR A WOMAN BUT DID SAY THE
VICTIM CONTRACTED THE MOSQUITO-
BORNE VIRUS TRAVELING TO A
COUNTRY WITH A ZIKA OUTBREAK.
THE C.D.C. ALSO SAID THE PERSON
WAS ELDERLY AND SUFFERED FROM
ANOTHER HEALTH CONDITION THAT
MAY HAVE CONTRIBUTED TO THE
DEATH.
MORE THAN 1,100 PEOPLE IN THE
CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES HAVE
CONTRACTED ZIKA, AND SO HAVE
2,500 PEOPLE IN PUERTO RICO.
>> Thompson: FINALLY, TONIGHT
MARKS THE FINAL CURTAIN FOR LIN-
MANUAL MIRANDA, STAR AND CREATOR
OF THE MUSICAL "HAMILTON," WHICH
HAS WON A PULITZER PRIZE, A
GRAMMY FOR ITS CAST ALBUM AND A
HOST OF TONY AWARDS.
MIRANDA IS BOWING OUT AFTER MORE
THAN 350 BROADWAY PERFORMANCES
AS THE FOUNDING FATHER.
THE TOP-GROSSING SHOW IS STILL
SOLD OUT MONTHS IN ADVANCE.
AND IT WAS A RECORD DAY AT
WIMBLEDON FOR SERENA WILLIAMS.
THE WORLD'S NUMBER ONE TENNIS
PLAYER WON THE WOMEN'S SINGLES
CHAMPIONSHIP FOR THE SEVENTH
TIME, BEATING GERMANY'S
ANGELIQUE KERBER.
IT WAS HER 22nd GRAND SLAM
TITLE, TYING HER WITH STEFFI
GRAF FOR THE MOST.
SHE RETURNED TO CENTER COURT
WITH HER SISTER, VENUS, TO WIN
THEIR SIXTH WIMBLEDON DOUBLES
CHAMPIONSHIP AND 14th GRAND SLAM
TROPHY TOGETHER, WITHOUT EVER
LOSING A FINAL.
AND PLEASE JOIN US ON TOMORROW'S
PROGRAM.
WE WILL HAVE MORE FROM HARI
SREENIVASAN IN DALLAS.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M MEGAN THOMPSON.
GOOD NIGHT.